---
date: 2021-08-22
title: 8/22 Update
description: French Fire update for 8/22
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
  - alta sierra
  - evacuation
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfa.png
image: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfam.png
author:
  "@type": GovernmentOrganization
  name: InciWeb
  url: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
  sameAs:
    - https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
    - https://twitter.com/inciweb
    - https://www.instagram.com/inciweb/
---
{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

The French Fire started on August 18, and has burned 13, 341 acres with 10% containment west of Lake Isabella in Kern County. The cause of the fire is unknown. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

Taking advantage of higher relative humidity last night, crews made an impact utilizing night-flying aircraft on the spot fire north around Alta Sierra and in the southwest region near Woodward Peak. Due to the fire remaining active overnight, additional night-flying aircraft will be available this evening to assist night shift personnel.

Crews and engines continue working on control lines on Old State Road to keep the fire from impacting the Wofford Heights community. Structure protection work remains in Highland, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, and Dutch Flat communities.

The overall strategy to contain the fire is to continue building containment line from the east end of the fire towards the west into higher elevations. Heavy equipment and hand crews will continue scouting for opportunities to construct back-up contingency containment lines to meet that objective. Aircraft continue to provide water drops on active portions of the fire perimeter, so ground crews can safely enter those areas.

Today, weather conditions will be warm and dry with westerly winds. After the inversion lifts, fire activity is expected to increase, with the forecast calling for low humidity and winds gusting to 20-25 mph. The fire is burning grass, brush and timber, which are at historically dry levels and will likely burn completely, holding heat and actively being consumed throughout the day. Drought conditions, the types of fuels and the weather are causing the fire to run farther and faster.

French Fire - Update #6 - Updated Evacuation Orders and Warnings

Este es un mensaje de emergencia. Para espanol, llame a 211. Gracias.

This is an update concerning the French Fire in the Kern River Valley. The following information is complete at the time of this message.

The following areas have been upgraded from Evacuation Warning to an Evacuation Order:

The communities of Pala Ranches and Calgary extending east to Black Canyon Trail and north to the Forest Boundary. All previously issued Evacuation Warnings remains in effect. Wofford Heights remains under an Evacuation Warning

The following areas are currently under an Evacuation Order:

West of the Sequoia National Forest border and south of Highway 155 east to where it turns into Old State Road. The Evacuation Order extends to Lake Isabella Reservoir and follows Highway 155 to Keyesville south. On the west side, it extends south to Rancho Road and follows east to where it turns into Black Gulch. This order includes Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, Dutch Flat, Isabella Highlands, Wagy Flat, and Keyesville north and south.

An Evacuation Order means that the French Fire is an immediate threat to life. An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

The following areas are currently under an Evacuation Warning:

South of the Tulare County border to Cane Peak and east of the Sequoia National Forest border to Black Mountain. This also includes east of Cane Peak to Burlando Road and south of Cane Peak to Old State Road and Highway 178 to include Black Gulch north residents.

Black Gulch residents are advised that the Keyesville Road could be overcome by smoke and/or fire. If that happens, Black Gulch residents may have no way out of the area, if they choose to leave. Please plan accordingly.

An Evacuation Warning means that the French Fire is a potential threat to life and/or property, and all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.

PLEASE NOTE: The evacuation center has been established at Woodrow W. Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella. Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center.

A link to the map of the French Fire Evacuation Zone is available on the ReadyKern Facebook page at Facebook.com/ReadyKern.

If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565.

If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 211. If you have physical limitations or require evacuation assistance, call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1-855-264-6565.

Additional information and an evacuation map can be viewed here https://inciweb.nwcg,gov/incident/7813

Fire Closures:

The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.

Forest Fire Area Closure:

Forest Order 0513 21 25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and Map

To protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Order 0513-21-25 was issued, Saturday, August 21, 2021. Please view the full order with exhibits and map for more information.

Fire Restrictions:

Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.
