---
date: 2021-08-24
title: 8/24 Update
pinned: true
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfa.png
image: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfam.png
---
{% include common/imgur.html imgur=page.imgur %}

Please join us for another Virtual Meeting on August 25, 2021, presented on the Sequoia National Forest Facebook page and shared through Kern County Fire Department Facebook page. Thank you to the more than 12,000 visitors who watched and shared the Monday evening virtual community meeting featured through Facebook live. If you were unable to join, the meeting has been posted to  the Sequoia National Forest and Kern County Fire Departments’ Facebook sites. Another virtual meeting is being planned for later this week. See the Sequoia National Forest’s Facebook page for future virtual meeting invites.

The French Fire, started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 16,002 acres with 19 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

On Monday, August 23, fire activity in the Shirley Peak area and Alta Sierra areas increased and crews successfully did a firing operation to help join up Rancheria Road (Forest Road No. 25S15) as a containment line. That was done to protect Alta Sierra and to keep the fire west of Rancheria Road.   Night flying aircraft were utilized to assist with the firing operations and additional night operations around the fire.

Fire crews constructed handline near Wagy Flat Road (Forest Road No. 25S02) to hold the fire and connect to a previous control line. Crews were also successful in building handline from the Sawmill Road (Forest Road No. 26S03) break to the division break one-mile south of Wagy Flat. On Tuesday, fire crews will continue to mop up in those areas and focus on protecting the structures off the Sawmill Road.

The local area will experience repeat weather conditions on Tuesday that are warm and dry, with relative humidity in the teens. The morning hours will have a light southeast wind that will become breezier and come out of the west around 3 p.m., with gusts of 20 mph. The Alta Sierra and Shirley Meadows areas have not experienced fire for several years, which adds to the drought-stressed, bug-killed fuels and weather conditions that are assisting with the fire spread.

The following Evacuation Orders remain in Effect: 

French Fire Update #7 - Evacuation Orders

The following areas are currently under an Evacuation Order:

Este es un mensaje de emergencia. Para espanol, llame a 211.

Wofford Heights is on an Evacuation Order, starting at Black Canyon Trail where it turns into Calgary Drive east to Burlando Road where it turns into Wofford Boulevard from the Sequoia Forest Boundary south to Old State Road.

Starting south of the Tulare County border on the west side, extending south to Rancheria Road and follows east to where it turns into Black Gulch. Following Black Gulch where it goes south to 178. Sequoia Forest boundary to Black Mountain is now a part of the evacuation order. East to Black Canyon Trail where it turns into Calgary Drive, north to the Sequoia Forest Boundary. The Evacuation Order extends to Lake Isabella Reservoir and follows Highway 155 to Keysville South. This order includes the following communities: Pala Ranches, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick 

Rock, Dutch Flat, Isabella Highlands, Wagy Flat, Black Gulch, and Keysville North and South.

An Evacuation Order means that the French Fire is an immediate threat to life. An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

Please Note: There are two evacuation centers: One located at Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella, the second located at Kern Valley High School, 3340 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella. Animal Services can assist with companion animals at the center or by calling 661-868-7100.

If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565.

You can search by your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at kerncountyfire.org

If you have an emergency, call 911.

If you have any questions, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 211.

Additional information can be viewed here https://inciweb.nwcg,gov/incident/7813

Fire Closures:

The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.

Forest Fire Area Closure:

Forest Order 0513 21 25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and Map

To protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Order 0513-21-25 was issued, Saturday, August 21, 2021. Please view the full order with exhibits and map for more information.

Fire Restrictions:

Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.
