---
title: 8/29 AM Update
date: 2021-09-28 7:30
updated: 2021-08-29 09:38
# updated: 2021-08-28 09:27
type: update
index: true
acres: 	24815
containment: 22
personel: 1614
estimated_containment: 2021-09-07 00:00
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/Tkw2PjS.jpg
image: https://i.imgur.com/Tkw2PjSm.jpg
description: 8/28 French Fire update from InciWeb
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
---
{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

## [French Fire Update 8/29](https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/incident/article/7813/65112/)
Thank you to the more than 10,000 visitors who watched and shared the Saturday evening virtual community meeting featured through Facebook live. If you were unable to join, the meeting is posted to the Sequoia National Forest, Kern County Fire Department and the Bureau of Land Managements' (California) Facebook sites. For those who cannot join during the live stream, the meeting will remain available through the agencies’ Facebook sites. See the Sequoia National Forest’s Facebook page or the French Fire – Inciweb announcements page for future virtual meeting invites.
The French Fire, started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 24,815 acres with 22 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.
 
- The southwestern area of the fire continues to be active, backing down the Basket Pass Road, filling in Little Poso Creek yesterday. Crews and engines are working to hold the fire along Basket Pass Road and Rancheria Road. Active fire behavior is likely in Evans Flat today due to the challenging terrain and predicted winds.
- The west side of the fire experienced little growth yesterday. Moving north, the fire continues to back very slowly. Firefighters with support from aircraft have been working spot fires and have tied handline and dozer line into the rocks at Black Mountain. Structure defense remains for resources in the immediate area, including the Shirley Peak communication hub and the Southern California Edison 66kV sub-transmission lines north of State Route 155.
- The east side of the fire remained relatively quiet throughout the day and crews were able to get some good depth in mopping up, allowing the evacuation order impacting the Isabella Heights and Wofford Heights communities to be downgraded to an Evacuation Warning. Residents will see smoke in the fire’s interior as crews continue to mop up and monitor the fire activity. Please be cautious of surrounding activities and potential hazards in and around the fire area; fire resources will be active in the area.
- Winds were lighter yesterday with slightly better humidity recoveries overnight. Relative humidity as of this morning is sitting at 25-30 percent. High temperatures will climb to near 100 degrees at the lower elevations and afternoon humidity will be around 10 percent. Afternoon winds will generally be from the west, moving to blow from the northwest by the afternoon, with gusts at 15-20 mph.
 
### Fire Closures:

The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.
 
### Sequoia National Forest Fire Area Closure Orders
Forest Order 0513-21-25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and Map and Forest Order 0513-21-26 Upper Kern Area and Trails Closure and Map. To protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Orders 0513-21-25/26 were issued, Saturday, August 21 and Friday, August 27.

Please view the full orders with exhibits and maps for more information.
Fire Restrictions: Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.
 
### French Fire - UPDATE #16
#### As of 3 p.m. on Saturday, August 28, 2021. Details below.
 
Este es un mensaje de la seguridad. Para espanol, llame a 2-1-1. Gracias
 
The following areas moving to Evacuation WARNINGS (excluding Pala Ranches) are the area from Highway 155 east from Pala Drive in Wofford Heights and the Isabella Highlands community from Highway 155 and Sawmill Rd to Sawmill Rd and 15th Street. This is in addition to the downgrade to an Evacuation WARNING for the communities in Hungry Gulch and Dutch Flat. Residents of the Isabella Highlands and Wofford Heights communities may return to their properties; however, the evacuation warning remains in effect for the area. Residents need to be aware that the area may be placed back under Evacuation ORDERS at any time, with little to no advance notice, pending the activity of the French Fire.
An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area.

The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given. Evacuation Orders in effect:
- Private ranchlands east and south of Glennville
- Areas east of Glennville and west of the Forest boundary
- General area east of Fulton Peak
- General area east of Windmill Tree Peak
- Wofford Heights, Keysville, Pala Ranches, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, Wagley Flat and Black Gulch

Hwy 155 (also known as: Burlando Road, Wofford Blvd.) is closed from Plater Road south to Highway 178.

### EVACUATION WARNING:
An Evacuation Warning means that all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.
- The communities of Wofford Heights, Isabella Highlands, Hungry Gulch and Dutch Flat
- Areas west of the Forest boundary, including the communities of Glennville, Linns Valley, Poso Flat, Pine Mountain, Badger Canyon, to north of the Kern River Canyon.
- All of Kernville on both sides of the Kern River continue to remain in an EVACUATION WARNING.
- The community of Riverkern near the Kern-Tulare County border.

The previous EVACUATION ORDERS and EVACUATION WARNINGS remain in effect. There will be no escorts provided by Law Enforcement, Fire Personnel, or Forest Personnel. You can search your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at [https://bit.ly/38jmW6S](https://bit.ly/38jmW6S).

### Evacuation Centers:
An evacuation center on the west side of the incident zone has been added. The additional evacuation center is located at Pioneer Elementary School, 1001 Hiett Avenue, Delano. Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. The evacuation center is located at Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella. Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565. If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions about the content of this message, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 2-1-1. Thank you.
