---
title: 8/28 AM Update
date: 2021-08-28 7:30
updated: 2021-08-28 09:27
type: update
index: true
acres: 	23964
containment: 22
personel: 1310
estimated_containment: 2021-09-07 00:00
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/Tkw2PjS.jpg
image: https://i.imgur.com/Tkw2PjSm.jpg
description: 8/28 French Fire update from InciWeb
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
---
{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

Due to internet connectivity issues last night, there will be a follow-up virtual public meeting this evening, Saturday, August 28, at 6 p.m., streamed on the Sequoia National Forest and shared on Kern County Fire Department and the Bureau of Land Managements' (California) Facebook sites. For those who cannot join during the live stream, the meeting will remain available through the agencies’ Facebook sites. See the Sequoia National Forest’s Facebook page or the French Fire – Inciweb announcements page for future virtual meeting invites.  

The French Fire, started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 23,764       acres with 22 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

• The southeastern edge of the fire near Dutch Flat and along Borderline Road has continued to stay within existing lines, allowing the evacuation order impacting the Dutch Flat, French Gulch, and Achin Hills communities to be downgraded to an Evacuation Warning. Crews continue to mop up and monitor the fire activity along Rancheria Road. Please be cautious  of surrounding activities and potential hazards in and around the fire area; fire resources will be active in the area.• Most of the smoke production on Friday came from the Basket Ridge area to the east of Rancheria Road, where crews worked a spot fires with support from aircraft.  Crews continue to look for opportunities to tie in line, coming down from the fire's northern edge to the western edge into the Red Mountain area.• The fire remains active on the north side threatening communities and associated values at risk in the immediate area, including the Shirley Peak communication hub and the Southern California Edison 66kV  sub-transmission lines north of State Route 155. Structure defense is in place and crews were able strengthen handline and dozer line in the Black Mountain area.• Firefighters were able to complete a 15,000 ft hose lay off State Route 155 to the south towards Pala Ranches and Wofford Heights.• Fire in the southwestern area is currently at Rancheria/Sawmill Road junction, but it could reach the Whites Mill Road later tonight. • Strengthening high pressure will bring hotter and very dry conditions to the fire Saturday. High temperatures will climb to near 100 degrees at the lower elevations and afternoon humidity will be around 10 percent. Afternoon winds will generally be from the west, with gusts into the 15-25 mph. 

## Fire Closures
The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.
Forest Fire Area Closure:Forest Order 0513-21-25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and Map and Forest Order 0513-21-26 Upper Kern Area and Trails Closure and Map  To protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Orders 0513-21-25/26 were issued, Saturday, August 21 and Friday, August 27. Please view the full orders with exhibits and maps for more information.

## Fire Restrictions
Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.

## French Fire - UPDATE #15 
As of 3 p.m. on Friday, August 27, 2021. Details below.Este es un mensaje de la seguridad.

Para espanol, llame a 2-1-1. Gracias

The Evacuation ORDERS that affected the communities of Hungry Gulch and Dutch Flat have been reduced to Evacuation WARNINGS. Residents of these communities may return to their residences at this time. Please note that the area of Hungry Gulch, from Sawmill Road south along Highway 155 to Dutch Flat, remains under an Evacuation WARNING. Residents of these communities are advised that, depending on future French Fire activity, the Evacuation WARNINGS may again be elevated to Evacuation ORDERS with little to no advance notice.

An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

## EVACUATION ORDERS:
- Private ranchlands east and south of Glennville.
-Areas east of Glennville and west of the Forest boundary.
- General area east of Fulton Peak.• General area east of Windmill Tree Peak.
- Wofford Heights.
-Keysville.Hwy 155 (also known as: Burlando Road, Wofford Blvd.) is closed from Green Glen Drive east and south to approximately E. Sawmill Road north of Dutch Flat.

## EVACUATION WARNING:
An Evacuation Warning means that all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.• Areas west of the Forest boundary, including the communities of Glennville, Linns Valley, Poso Flat, Pine Mountain, Badger Canyon, to north of the Kern River Canyon.• All of Kernville on both sides of the Kern River continue to remain in an EVACUATION WARNING. Last evening’s ReadyKern message identified only the areas of Kernville west of the Kern River.• The community of Riverkern near the Kern-Tulare County border.

The previous EVACUATION ORDERS and EVACUATION WARNINGS remain in effect. There will be no escorts provided by Law Enforcement, Fire Personnel, or Forest Personnel. You can search your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at [kcfd.maps.arcgis.com](https://kcfd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/instant/interactivelegend/index.html?appid=cd18207578044581a9a9a1255fc88417).

Evacuation Centers:An evacuation center on the west side of the incident zone has been added. The additional evacuation center is located at Pioneer Elementary School, 1001 Hiett Avenue, Delano. Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. The evacuation center is located at Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella. Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565. If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions about the content of this message, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 2-1-1. Thank you. 
