---
title: 8/31 AM Update
date: 2021-08-31 09:00
# updated: 2021-08-31 08:00
categories:
  - inciweb
type: update
index: true
acres: 25643
containment: 40
personel: 1462
estimated_containment: 2021-09-07 00:00
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/Hjo1xfn.jpg
image: https://i.imgur.com/Hjo1xfnm.jpg
description: 8/31 French Fire update from InciWeb. Containment increases to 40%.
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
author:
  "@type": GovernmentOrganization
  name: InciWeb
  url: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
  sameAs:
    - https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
    - https://twitter.com/inciweb
    - https://www.instagram.com/inciweb/
---
## [French Fire Update – August 31, 2021](https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/incident/article/7813/65268/)

{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

On Tuesday, August 31, at 6 a.m., the National Incident Management Team (NIMO) assumed command of the fire. The NIMO team will be integrated with the California Interagency Incident Management Team 12 for the remainder of their assignment.

The French Fire, started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 25,643 acres with 40 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

- On Monday, August 30, most of the fire growth occurred on the northwest side, where there was increased activity from previous days. This activity is not a threat to the control of the fire. On Tuesday, crews will continue to construct direct line where possible and continue work on multiple indirect and contingency lines.
- The north side of the fire saw little or no growth yesterday and where most of the additional containment has been achieved. Firefighters are working on locating and lining any remaining spot fires with support from aircraft and strengthening the handline east of Black Mountain. The Structure Group is patrolling and mopping up around developments within the fire interior, including Alta Sierra, Shirley Meadows, the Shirley Peak communication hub, and the Southern California Edison 66kV sub-transmission lines north of State Route 155. These crews are also cutting unsafe (hazard) trees.
- On the south side of the fire, crews successfully held the fire within the containment line at Basket Pass Road from north of Basket Pass to Evans Meadow. A small spot fire occurred near Evans Meadow but was quickly addressed by firefighters. Heavy equipment and crews are working on contingency lines in the area.
- The east side of the fire remained quiet throughout the day and crews made good progress mopping up. This has allowed residents to return to Pala Ranches. Residents will see smoke in the fire’s interior. Please be cautious of surrounding activities and potential hazards in and around the fire area; fire resources will be active in the area.
- Tuesday will be dry and windy with near critical fire weather conditions. Westerly winds will be 15-20 with gusts 30-35 mph. These elevated fire conditions will be present through at least Wednesday.

### Road Closures:
Hwy 155 to western Sequoia NF boundary. Sawmill Road at the top of Sawmill Pass. Old State Road in Wofford Heights. 24S15 at Kern/Tulare County Line.

### Fire Closures:
The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.

Sequoia National Forest Fire Area Closure Orders:Regional Order 21-07 was issued on Monday August 30 which closes all National Forest lands in California to protect visitors, mountain communities, staff, and firefighters.  The order can be viewed [here](https://www.fs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/fseprd949149.pdf).

### Fire Restrictions:
Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.

Evacuation InformationOn Monday, August 30, 2021, at 3:00 p.m. Ready Kern put out [UPDATE #18](/news/readykern/2021/08/30/evacuation-updates/) changing some evacuation levels from Orders to Warnings and some evacuation Warnings being lifted. Details below. Este es un mensaje de la seguridad. Para espanol, llame a 2-1-1. Gracias.

The Evacuation WARNINGS that affected the communities of Glennville, Linns Valley, Pine Mountain, Badger Canyon, and Poso Flat have been LIFTED.

The Evacuation ORDER that affected the community of Pala Ranches has been reduced to Evacuation WARNING. The community of Pala Ranches may return to their properties; however, the evacuation warning remains in effect for the area. Residents need to be aware that the area may be placed back under evacuation order at any time pending the activity of the French fire.

An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.
Evacuation ORDERS remain in effect for the following communities:Keysville, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, Wagy Flats, Black Gulch, and the area around Fulton Peak south of Windmill Tree Peak (the ranch land area).

An Evacuation WARNING means that there is a potential threat to life and/or property, and all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.
Evacuation WARNINGS remain in effect for the following communities:
- Wofford Heights
- Pala Ranches
- Isabella Highlands
- Hungry Gulch
- Dutch Flats.

There will be no escorts provided by Law Enforcement, Fire Personnel, or Forest Personnel. You can search your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at [https://bit.ly/38jmW6S](https://bit.ly/38jmW6S).

### Evacuation Center:
- Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella.
Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565. If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions about the content of this message, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 2-1-1. Thank you.
