---
date: 2021-08-23
title: 8/23 Update
description: French Fire update for 8/23
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
  - alta sierra
  - evacuation
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfa.png
image: https://i.imgur.com/SVBEbfam.png
author:
  "@type": GovernmentOrganization
  name: InciWeb
  url: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
  sameAs:
    - https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
    - https://twitter.com/inciweb
    - https://www.instagram.com/inciweb/
---
{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

Acreage: 14,773 Containment: 15% Total Personnel: 906
 Please join us during the French Fire Facebook Live Event tonight for updates and information starting at 6 p.m., via the Sequoia National Forest and Kern County Fire Departments’ Facebook sites. Please visit inciweb for more information: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/incident/7813/.
The French Fire, started on August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 14,773 acres with 15 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.
 On Sunday, Aug. 22, fire crews constructed a handline near Wagy Flat Road (Forest Road No. 25S02) to hold the fire and connect into a previous controlled line. Crews were also successful continuing handline from the Sawmill Road break to the division break that is one mile south of Wagy Flat. Today, crews will continue to mop up in those areas and pay close attention to the structures off the Sawmill Road.Further west, towards Rancheria Road (Forest Road No. 25S15), there was some fire growth and fire crews successfully used dozers and hand crews to catch the smaller spot fire slopped over onto Borderline Road. On Monday, crews will work towards Rancheria Road constructing direct line with a strong probability they can get up to Rancheria Road within the upcoming days.
 Communities near Shirley Peak experienced increased fire activity that produced lots of smoke from flanking, backing fire and isolated runs. Shirley Meadows also experienced increased fire activity and crews successfully kept the fire south of Old State Road. On Monday, crews and engines will continue working on control lines on Old State Road with the objective of linking in with the spot fire in Alta Sierra.
 On Sunday evening, fire activity in the Shirley Peak area and Alta Sierra had increased and crews were successful in doing a late-night firing operation. That was done to protect Alta Sierra and to keep the fire west of Rancheria Road. Night flying aircraft was utilized to assist with the firing operations and additional night operations around the fire.
Weather: Today, weather conditions will be warmer and drier than yesterday, and relative humidity is expected to drop in the teens. The morning will show light southeast wind that will become more breezy and more westerly around 3 p.m.The following Evacuation Orders are in Effect:
UPDATE: as of 7:30 pm Sunday, August 22, 2021French Fire Update #7 - Evacuation OrdersThe following areas are currently under an Evacuation Order: Este es un mensaje de emergencia. Para espanol, llame a 211. Wofford Heights is on an Evacuation Order, starting at Black Canyon Trail where it turns into Calgary Drive east to Burlando Road where it turns into Wofford Boulevard from the Sequoia Forest Boundary south to Old State Road. Starting south of the Tulare County border on the west side, extending south to Rancheria Road and follows east to where it turns into Black Gulch. Following Black Gulch where it goes south to 178. Sequoia Forest boundary to Black Mountain is now a part of the evacuation order. East to Black Canyon Trail where it turns into Calgary Drive, north to the Sequoia Forest Boundary. The Evacuation Order extends to Lake Isabella Reservoir and follows Highway 155 to Keysville South. This order includes the following communities: Pala Ranches, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, Dutch Flat, Isabella Highlands, Wagy Flat, Black Gulch, and Keysville North and South. An Evacuation Order means that the French Fire is an immediate threat to life. An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

Please Note: The evacuation center is located at Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella. Animal Services will assist with shelter companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1-855-264-6565. You can search by your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at kerncountyfire.org
 If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 211.Additional information can be viewed here https://inciweb.nwcg,gov/incident/7813
Fire Closures:The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.
Forest Fire Area Closure:Forest Order 0513 21 25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and MapTo protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Order 0513-21-25 was issued, Saturday, August 21, 2021. Please view the full order with exhibits and map for more information.
Fire Restrictions:Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.
