---
title: 8/30 AM Update
date: 2021-08-30 08:00
updated: 2021-08-31 08:00
type: update
index: true
acres: 25643
containment: 40
personel: 1462
estimated_containment: 2021-09-07 00:00
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/rMFKRiH.jpg
image: https://i.imgur.com/rMFKRiHm.jpg
description: 8/30 French Fire update from InciWeb
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
author:
  "@type": GovernmentOrganization
  name: InciWeb
  url: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
  sameAs:
    - https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
    - https://twitter.com/inciweb
    - https://www.instagram.com/inciweb/
---
## [French Fire Update – August 30, 2021](https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/incident/article/7813/65176/)

{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

The French Fire, started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 25,264 acres with 26 percent containment. The fire is being managed by California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

- Yesterday the fire was very active and spotting around Evans Flat area. The firefighters successfully held the fire along the Basket Pass Road. Direct handline was completed from Rancheria Road to Basket Pass Road. Heavy equipment is also working on contingency lines. For Monday, active fire behavior is likely in this area due to the challenging terrain and predicted winds.
- On the north side of the fire there was very little growth yesterday. Firefighters with support from aircraft have been working to put out spot fires and have tied handline and dozer line into the rocks at Black Mountain. Structure defense remains for resources in the immediate area, including the Shirley Peak communication hub and the Southern California Edison 66kV sub-transmission lines north of State Route 155.
- Along the northwest side, spot fires from the previous days grew together, putting up a lot of smoke. Mop up and scouting for direct and indirect line is occurring today. The fire continues to back slowly into Alder Creek, Cedar Creek against the wind and the indirect dozer line is progressing well in this area. Crews are scouting for opportunities to go direct.
- The east side of the fire remained quiet throughout the day and crews made good progress mopping up. This has allowed for some containment to be made around Alta Sierra. Residents will see smoke in the fire’s interior as crews mop up and monitor the fire activity. Please be cautious of surrounding activities and potential hazards in and around the fire area; fire resources will be active in the area.
- Monday will be hot and dry, with temperatures in the upper 90s and humidity in the teens. Winds will be light and out of the west this morning, switching to the northwest this afternoon and strengthening. Ridge-top gusts will be 18-24 mph. Gusty down-canyon winds may develop on the east side of the fire. Slightly higher humidity may arrive mid-week.

### Fire Closures:
The BLM has temporarily closed the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.

Sequoia National Forest Fire Area Closure Orders:Forest Order 0513-21-25 French Fire area Roads and Trails Closure and Map and Forest Order 0513-21-26 Upper Kern Area and Trails Closure and Map. To protect visitors, mountain communities, staff and firefighters, Forest Orders 0513-21-25/26 were issued, Saturday, August 21 and Friday, August 27. Please view the full orders with exhibits and maps for more information.

### Fire Restrictions:
Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.


## French Fire - UPDATE #17
### SOME Evacuation WARNINGS have been LIFTED Details below.

Este es un mensaje de la seguridad. Para espanol, llame a 2-1-1. Gracias.

UPDATE: As of 8:00 a.m. on Monday, August 30, 2021

This is an update to previous ReadyKern messages concerning the French Fire in the Kern River Valley. The Evacuation WARNINGS that affected the communities of Kernville and Riverkern have been LIFTED.
The area from Sierra way from the county line south through Riverkern to Kernville is now out of the evacuation warning area. Also, the area from Kernville south on Kernville Rd. to Plater Rd. is also out of the evacuation warning area.

An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from the fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

### Evacuation Orders in effect:
- Keysville
- Pala Ranches
- Shirley Meadows
- Alta Sierra
- Slick Rock
- Wagy Flat
- Black Gulch
- Highway 155 from Forest Boundary west to Green Glen Drive and 1.5 miles south to the northwest corner of Township 25s Range 31E section 33;(in the general area east of Fulton Peak). Continuing 1.5 miles west to the Whitemill Road area, and 4 miles south to the area east of Windmill Tree Peak. Continue 2 miles east to the Forest Boundary. This area includes the ranch lands east and south of Glennville. Please click the link below for the interactive map of the affected area.Road Closures: Hwy 155 west of Wofford Heights to Slick Rock. Sawmill Road at the top of Sawmill Pass. Old State Road in Wofford Heights

### EVACUATION WARNING:
An Evacuation Warning means that all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.

- The communities of Wofford Heights, Isabella Highlands, Hungry Gulch and Dutch Flat
- From the forest boundary west to Jack Ranch Road at the Tulare and Kern county line continuing south on Jack Ranch Road turning into highway 155 and continuing west to Granite Road. South on Granite Road to Poso Flat Road.
- Granite and Poso Flat, due south for 11 miles to the forest boundary located in the south west corner of township 28S Range 30E section 19. Please click the link below for the interactive map of the affected area.

The previous EVACUATION ORDERS and EVACUATION WARNINGS remain in effect. There will be no escorts provided by Law Enforcement, Fire Personnel, or Forest Personnel. You can search your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at [https://bit.ly/38jmW6S](https://bit.ly/38jmW6S)

### Evacuation Centers:
- Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella.
- Kern Valley High School, 3340 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella

Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565. If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions about the content of this message, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 2-1-1. Thank you.
