---
title: 9/1 AM Update
date: 2021-09-01 09:00
# updated: 2021-08-31 08:00
categories:
  - inciweb
type: update
index: true
acres: 25782
containment: 43
personel: 1487
estimated_containment: 2021-09-07 00:00
imgur: https://i.imgur.com/FzT9XGq.jpg
image: https://i.imgur.com/FzT9XGqm.jpg
description: 9/1 French Fire update from InciWeb. Containment increases to 46%.
tags:
  - french fire
  - kern valley
  - kern river valley
  - fire
  - wofford heights
  - kernville
author:
  "@type": GovernmentOrganization
  name: InciWeb
  url: https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
  sameAs:
    - https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/
    - https://twitter.com/inciweb
    - https://www.instagram.com/inciweb/
---
## [French Fire Update – September 1, 2021](https://inciweb.nwcg.gov/incident/article/7813/65343/)

{% include common/imgur.html url=page.imgur %}

A public meeting will be held today, Wednesday, Sept. 1, at 6 p.m. at the McNally Arena, 487 Scodie Ave., Kernville, CA. The meeting will also be streamed live on the Sequoia National Forest Facebook page and shared to BLM California and Kern County Fire Department Facebook pages.

The French Fire started on Wednesday, August 18, west of Lake Isabella in Kern County, has now burned 25,782 acres with 43 percent containment. A National Incident Management Team (NIMO) is managing the fire, integrated with California Interagency Incident Management Team 12, and coordinating closely with the Bureau of Land Management, Sequoia National Forest, and Kern County Fire Department in Unified Command.

- On the west side the fire crews are conducting a defensive low intensity burning operation to reinforce the direct and indirect fireline.
- On the north side of the fire minimal fire growth was observed. Firefighters are working on constructing and strengthening the lines west of Black Mountain. Helicopters will insert crews into remote areas today. The Structure Group is patrolling and mopping up around developments within the fire interior, including Alta Sierra, Shirley Meadows, the Shirley Peak communication hub, and the Southern California Edison 66kV sub-transmission lines north of State Route 155. These crews are also cutting unsafe (hazard) trees.
- On the south side of the fire, crews successfully held the fire within the containment line at Basket Pass Road from north of Basket Pass to Evans Meadow. Significant progress has been made mopping up and securing these lines. Heavy equipment and crews are working on contingency lines in the area.
- The east side of the fire saw the strongest winds yesterday, but remained quiet throughout the day, and crews made good progress mopping up. Please be cautious of surrounding activities and potential hazards in and around the fire area; fire resources will be active in the area.
- Today is another day of near-critical fire weather conditions. It will be dry and windy with low relative humidity, around 10-15 percent. The winds will be 15-20 with gusts 30-35 mph from the west to the northwest. Winds will be the strongest on the east side.

### Road Closures:
Hwy 155 to western Sequoia National Forest boundary. Sawmill Road at the top of Sawmill Pass. Old State Road in Wofford Heights. 24S15 at Kern/Tulare County Line.

### Fire Closures:
The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has a temporary closure for the Keysville Special Recreation Management Area to all public access due to wildland fire danger.
Closure Order of All USDA Region 5 National Forests in California:On Monday August 30, Regional Order 21-07 was issued, which closes all National Forest lands in California to protect visitors, mountain communities, staff, and firefighters.  

### Fire Restrictions:
Public lands managed by the Sequoia National Forest and the BLM Bakersfield Field Office are under Fire Restrictions at this time. The use of propane stoves with an on/off switch is permitted, but campfires are not allowed.

### Evacuation Information
There were no evacuation changes on Tuesday August 31. Details of current evacuations are below.

Este es un mensaje de la seguridad. Para espanol, llame a 2-1-1. Gracias.

An Evacuation Order is a lawful order to leave now and seek shelter away from fire area. The area is lawfully closed to public access. An Evacuation Order will likely be the last order given.

#### Evacuation ORDERS remain in effect for the following communities:
Keysville, Shirley Meadows, Alta Sierra, Slick Rock, Wagy Flats, Black Gulch, and the area around Fulton Peak south of Windmill Tree Peak (the ranch land area).

An Evacuation WARNING means that there is a potential threat to life and/or property, and all residents are advised to be prepared to leave the area at a moment’s notice if it becomes necessary. Those who require additional time to evacuate, and those with pets and livestock, should leave now.

#### Evacuation WARNINGS remain in effect for the following communities:
Wofford Heights, Pala Ranches, Isabella Highlands, Hungry Gulch, and Dutch Flats.

There will be no escorts provided by Law Enforcement, Fire Personnel, or Forest Personnel.

You can search your address in the French Fire Interactive Evacuation Map posted at https://bit.ly/38jmW6S.

#### Evacuation Center:
Woodrow Wallace Elementary School, 3240 Erskine Creek Road, Lake Isabella.
Animal Services will assist with sheltering companion animals at the center. If you have physical limitations and require evacuation assistance, please call the Aging & Adult Services hotline at 1- 855-264-6565. If you have an emergency, call 911. If you have any questions about the content of this message, please contact Kern County Information and Referral Services at 2-1-1. Thank you.
